Before a user can make a claim, two things are needed:  
* 👤 an identity, so that the claim can be associated with this user
* 💠 a claim type (CTYPE for short), to create the claim based on a specific structure.   

Let's start with the identity.   

---

# 👤 Identity

What's an identity in KILT?   

An identity is an object representing an entity, for example a person, an organization or even a machine.   

An identity contains multiple properties. One of them is the `address` : it's the entity's unique and public identifier.     

> 💡 Are you familiar with asymmetric cryptography?  
> If not: feel free to read about it, but for this tutorial it's enough to remember that the `address` is a unique identifier for a given entity.    
> If so, a few extra details:  
> A KILT identity contains:
> * an encryption keypair (x25519-xsalsa20-poly1305) used to encrypting messages between participants of the system;   
> * a signing keypair (ed25519, will be replaced with sr25519);
> * the address, which is generated from the signing public key using the ss58 algorithm. 


All we need to create an identity is a mnemonic.  


A mnemonic is a series of random words, that are human-readable. 
A mnemonic needs to be really random to be safe, and because computers are better creating random lists than humans, we're just using a function to generate a mnemonic.  

The mnemonic is then converted to a seed
If you're a little rust on this terminology, feel free toc check xxx.
● signing keypair: currently uses the ed25519 public-key signature system, but it will
be replaced by sr25519 in the next version of Substrate
● address: the public address is generated by encoding the signing public key, using
the ss58 algorithm.
● encryption keypair: uses x25519-xsalsa20-poly1305 for encrypting messages
between participants of the system  

asically, a mnemonic is a way to reproduce something hard to remember, like a series of data, and by associating the data with things like random words, so humans can remember the original data by using the mnemonic as a deciphering tool. With private keys tied to cryptocurrencies, the list of words you write down as a backup is basically enough information to recover your funds to another wallet if something unfortunate were to happen. 


## Code 

To generate an identity, we'll use two methods from the KILT SDK. 
* `generateMnemonic` // generates a mnemonic. 
* `buildFromMnemonic` // takes a mnemonic as an input, and outputs an `Identity` instance.  

Create a new file and name it `1-generateMnemonic.js`.

Open it and copy/paste the following code: 

```javascript
// import Kilt SDK
const Kilt = require('@kiltprotocol/sdk-js');

const mnemonic = Kilt.Identity.generateMnemonic();
console.log('mnemonic:', mnemonic);

const identity = Kilt.Identity.buildFromMnemonic(mnemonic);
console.log('address:', identity.address);
```

You're now ready to generate an Identity.  

To do so, run this command in your terminal, still within your `kilt-rocks` directory:  
```bash
node 1-generateMnemonic.js
``` 

Your output should look like (but not be identical to):
```bash
mnemonic: gold upset segment cake universe carry demand comfort dawn invite element capital
address: 5CUoo2vAegeaZHPNdxZyuMesR3RWYBKHj4jfVyj4FXzpXPuR
```  

OK, we've successfully generated a new Identity and its address!  

You will need the address in the next section, so make sure to copy it.  



Want to dive deeper?  
See the source code there:  

